I am planning to construct a final project that illustrates the issue of gun violence in the United States, mostly to convince my audience that this is a public health issue. I am planning on attempting to utilize pathos in my final project to appeal to the audience’s emotions as this is a very emotional issue. I will utilize visualizations to show the amount of deaths that occur on a population basis, the reasons in which a firearm was used, as well as…

I will be utilizing publicly accessible data from a variety of sources to tell this story. [Everytown Research](https://everytownresearch.org/report/gun-violence-in-america/) provides great data that depicts a variety of different aspects of gun violence in the United States including the intent in which people use guns. Intent is going to be a big part of my project as it will help contribute to my argument that mental health needs to be more of a priority in order to effectively diminish the negative impact that gun violence has on the United States. I am planning on pulling 2 data sources from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention [[Source 1](https://wonder.cdc.gov/controller/saved/D176/D298F965) & [Source 2](https://wonder.cdc.gov/controller/saved/D76/D262F294)]. 

When it comes for my plan for delivery, I am planning on using shorthand to communicate the story. I like shorthand because it has a storymap feel to it and I find the platform to be engaging. I have a variety of different ideas for visualizations and have received some initial feedback from my peers on how I can improve my approach to depicting the data that I have found. One of my sources from the CDC states that the "crude rate" of gun violence in the United States is 14.8% and I am still trying to figure out what I am planning to do with this statistic. Out of the 329 million people in the United States in 2021, 48,000 of them experienced death because of gun violence, but I want to find more data on how many peoplem are actually affected by gun violence. 
